DATA PREPROCESSING

Data preprocessing is a process of preparing the raw data and making it suitable for a machine learning model. 
It is the first and crucial step while creating a machine learning model.

When creating a machine learning project, it is not always a case that we come across the clean and formatted data. 
And while doing any operation with data, it is mandatory to clean it and put in a formatted way. So for this, we use data preprocessing task.



1) Get the Dataset
To create a machine learning model, the first thing we required is a dataset as a machine learning model completely works on data. 
The collected data for a particular problem in a proper format is known as the dataset.

Dataset may be of different formats for different purposes, such as, if we want to create a machine learning model for business purpose, then dataset will be different with the dataset required for a liver patient. 
So each dataset is different from another dataset. To use the dataset in our code, we usually put it into a CSV file. 
However, sometimes, we may also need to use an HTML or xlsx file.



DATASET : KAGGLE- PARKINSON'S DRAWING DATASET.


2) Importing Libraries
In order to perform data preprocessing using Python, we need to import some predefined Python libraries. 
These libraries are used to perform some specific jobs. There are three specific libraries that we will use for data preprocessing



LIBRARIES: MAINLY INCLUDES numpy, matplotlib, randomforest classifier, histogram of gradients, pandas, os etc...


3) Importing the Datasets
Now we need to import the datasets which we have collected for our machine learning project. 
But before importing a dataset, we need to set the current directory as a working directory.


4) Handling Missing data:
The next step of data preprocessing is to handle missing data in the datasets. 
If our dataset contains some missing data, then it may create a huge problem for our machine learning model.
 Hence it is necessary to handle missing values present in the dataset.


NO MISSING DATA AS IT IS AN IMAGE FILE


5) Encoding Categorical data:
Categorical data is data which has some categories such as, in our dataset; there are two categorical variable, Country, and Purchased.

Since machine learning model completely works on mathematics and numbers, but if our dataset would have a categorical variable, then it may create trouble while building the model. 
So it is necessary to encode these categorical variables into numbers.



6) Splitting the Dataset into the Training set and Test set
In machine learning data preprocessing, we divide our dataset into a training set and test set. 
This is one of the crucial steps of data preprocessing as by doing this, we can enhance the performance of our machine learning model.

Suppose, if we have given training to our machine learning model by a dataset and we test it by a completely different dataset. 
Then, it will create difficulties for our model to understand the correlations between the models.


TRAIN AND TEST MODEL BY MACHINE LEARNING ALGORITHMS : SPLIT BY  test-train split


from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split  
x_train, x_test, y_train, y_test= train_test_split(x, y, test_size= 0.2, random_state=0)  



These are the necessary steps for the data preprocessing.



